#PID control project
##Components of PID

The actual implementation of code for a basic PID controller is fairly straightforward, but making the controller actually perform well is the tough part. Having knowledge of each part of "PID" is important:

The "P" for proportional means that the car will steer in proportion to the cross-track error, or CTE. CTE is essentially how far from the middle line of the road (the reference) the car is. This makes sense, as if the car is to the left of the line then you would want to steer to the right; if it is far to the left of the middle with a high CTE then you want a higher steering angle. However, if the coefficient is set too high for P, the car will oscillate a ton, as the car will constantly overcorrect and overshoot the middle. If the coefficient is too low, the car may react too slowly to curves when the car gets off-center with a higher CTE. In order to prove the importance of the proportional parameter, we forced Kp to zero and we observed a slower correction of the trajectory. The car is not able to finish the lap.

The "I" for integral sums up all CTEs up to that point, such that too many negative CTEs (in this case, meaning the car has been to the left of the middle of the lane for awhile) will drive up this value, causing the car to turn back toward the middle, preventing the car from driving on one side of the lane the whole time. If the coefficient is too high for I, the car tends to have quicker oscillations, and does not tend to get up to a quick speed. A low coefficent for I will cause the car to tend to drift to one side of the lane or the other for longer periods of time. In our case, nullifying Ki the car overshoots a bit more but there is not a big difference between PID and PD performance. The car is able to finish the lap even with Ki = 0. That makes sense because our Ki in PID is small (0,002).

The "D" for derivate is the change in CTE from one value to the next. This means that 1) if the derivative is quickly changing, the car will correct itself (i.e. higher steering angle) faster, such as in the case of a curve, and 2) if the car is moving outward from the middle, this will cause the steering to get larger (as the derivative sign will match the proportional sign), but if the car is moving toward the center (meaning the derivative value will be negative), the car's steering angle will get smoothed out, leading to a more smoother driving experience. Too high of a coefficient leads to almost constant steering angle changes of large degrees, where although the car will be well-centered it can hardly move. Too low of a D coefficient will lead to the oscillations being too high with more overshooting. In our case, with Kd = 0, as expected the car overshoots incrementally making the system unstable.

##Finding the right coefficients

The values of the coefficients were determined by manual tuning from Kp, Ki and Kd equal to 1. The coefficients I chose (0.3,0.002,2.5) seemed to work well, and I also tried lowering and raising them in conjunction with each other as well as tuning each individually. dually. 